Okay, well, then I'll talk about some
things that I think you should look into
next to further your learning.
So the number one thing,
obviously, next js docs.
It's amazing.
It's actually quite good.
It's very thorough.
And if you were to read
through most of this,
you will find out that we probably
only covered 30, 40% of it.
There's so much more in here,
it's ridiculous.
But a lot of it has to
do with performance and
alternative ways of doing
the same thing and configuration.
So, one thing that we did not talk
about too much was, let me see.
We did not talk about some of the other
advanced routing things you can do.
So we didn't talk about, where is it at,
parallel routes, which uses the @ sign.
My goodness, yeah, we didn't talk about
that because it's actually quite advanced
and there's really not a good use case for
it, other than some really advanced thing.
But if you wanna know more about that,
you can look into it.
I'll probably cover it in the full
stack course, actually, I think I will.
We also did not talk about
intercepting routes,
which works very well
with parallel routes.
And this is your ability to add
this stuff into your file names.
If the dots drove you crazy before,
these are 100% gonna drive you crazy.
It's actually quite
difficult to reason about,
took me a week to actually
understand what this was.
I actually had to go look at the pull
requests in which the person suggested
this feature on the team to understand the
philosophy behind why this was a thing,
and only then did I understand it.
So, but at face value,
I did not understand this.
So it was quite difficult.
So I didn't wanna talk about that today.
[LAUGH] Yeah, and there's some
other stuff in here as well, but
those are some of the big ones.
Other things I didn't talk about,
optimization things like images.
I didn't really talk about this because,
I mean, at the end of the day,
the image component works like
a regular image component.
But then you could do all this other
crazy stuff with it for optimizations,
but I didn't feel it was
necessary until you needed it.
There's some fun stuff here.
Lazy loading is pretty big, so you can
dynamically load in other components,
which is actually pretty cool.
This works great for client side things
in which you don't want to show and
therefore download JavaScript for
things that aren't on the page yet.
So if you have some type of component that
doesn't get shown until some interaction
happens, you can lazily import that and
then render it when
the interaction happens.
Which will delay the download of that
JavaScript and that component showing up,
which should make your loads faster.
So it's actually really cool to
be able to something like that.
We didn't talk about, let me see,
is there something in data fetch?
Yeah, we didn't talk about caching and
fetching too much.
I mean, I did, but
I didn't get into the examples of it.
You should check it out.
It's really cool.
It's very fascinating.
I think the entire framework
is built on this concept, so
they're putting a lot of money into that.
Those are probably the big ones.
There's still some some smaller
ones in there, but I think for
the most part those
are probably the big ones.
You can look into the compiler.
You can look at the turbo pack if you
want, but it's probably not necessary.
There's a crazy amount of configuration
you can do in the next config,
I mean, I'm still scrolling, it's a lot.
So, [LAUGH] you can do a lot
in the next.config, and
that's mostly because you're interacting
with the compiler at that point.
And if it's Webpack, which if I look
at the output of, where did it go?
Yeah, it looks like it's
Webpack by default now still.
And I know Webpack has
a million options you can do.
So you can check that out.
And then here are the other built-in
functions that we didn't talk about.
I didn't talk about redirects,
not found, use path name,
use router, use selected layout segment.
There's a lot of functions in here
that next js has packaged that
we did not talk about.
So, you can look at draft mode.
Don't get me started about draft mode,
it's actually quite amazing, but
you need a CMS in order to
actually [LAUGH] understand it.
We're not doing CMSs today.
So it's really cool.
They have a something for
everything most likely, so
I highly recommend checking it out.
Other than that,
I do recommend just taking this logic, and
I'm a true believer the best way of
learning something is just sitting down.
Deciding on building something that's
probably, I wouldn't say too far
out of your skill set, but far enough
to where you couldn't just sit down and
do it without referencing anything,
and then go make that.
And then once you make that, enhance
that thing, go add more features to it.
Maybe add a better design to it.
Go on dribble.com and find a design and
implement that design.
That's actually how I
started learning apps.
I would just go and Dribble, I go find
designs that I really liked, and I'm like,
all right, I'm gonna turn that to an app.
And then that's what I did
cuz I was not a designer.
I didn't have a designer friend, so
I just found designs and did that, and
I made sure it was just right outside my
skill level to where I knew I had to look
things up and learn.
You don't wanna do
something that's too easy.
So I think once you do that two or
three times with next js,
this will just become so familiar to you
that you'll understand it and and, yeah,
you won't really be looking
things up too much.
So that's my opinion with pretty much
anything as an engineer learning
something, and
the sooner you get those reps in,
the sooner you can be proficient with it.
So those are my recommendations.
>> In terms of authentication
authorization,
is there a next prescribed
way of doing that?
Is that something more depends on?
>> I'm very opinionated about that.
I used to be in the boat of I'm
just gonna roll my own auth, and
there's something called
NextAuth.js out there.
If you're in a boat of rolling
your own auth, just use this.
Just don't use anything else but this.
It's really good.
I'm now in the other boat where
I don't wanna roll my own auth.
I don't wanna waste time
doing the same thing.
I realize every time I roll my own auth,
it's the same auth.
I got to the point where I
would make it from scratch,
it would be the same way every time.
And then I find a library and
I'm like, this saves me so much time.
Then I use the library and the config
will be the same thing every time.
And I was like, okay,
I'm just copying and pasting the config
from every repo that I've ever made.
And then I was like,
I don't really wanna do this anymore,
because it's the same thing every time.
It's auth, and I'm not a auth expert.
I'm not a security expert.
So now I prefer to use services, and
actually found a really good service that
we'll be using in a full stack
course that takes two seconds and
it's the best thing I've
ever seen in my life.
So if I heard the question,
right, it sounds like they're asking
if I have a page that fetches data.
But the way that it fetches data is
from a route on an API that I created.
If that's the case, there won't be
any data fetching in the browser,
that would all happen on the server
that this function gets executed.
And then because this is serverless,
that would call your API server function,
which spins up and
makes that call through whatever
private network this got deployed to.
So there shouldn't be any
browser communication there,
that should still just be
server to server communication.
I mean at that point it's just treating
it like a third party API, and the only
benefit you would get is if however this
got deployed, they were in the same VPC.
And other than that,
it's usually the same, so
you shouldn't have a problem there as far
as going through the public internet,
depending on how it got deployed.
Now, if you also did some API
call inside this component, well,
then you couldn't do any of this because
that would make it a client component and
therefore you couldn't do this.
So you could only,
you can only do either, or,
you couldn't make an API call in here and
a use effect.
And do browser site API calls, but
also get data on the server for
this because you can only do one or
the other.
You can't do both.
So I don't think you'll
actually run into that problem.
>> It's kind of a loaded question.
>> Okay.
>> Is Next.js optimal for enterprise apps?
>> So the first company I've
ever started was a consultancy.
It was a dev shop for
enterprise companies.
All I did for two years,
almost three years,
we're helping enterprise companies
get off of, I don't know, Django or
WordPress or something like that,
on to something that was enterprise.
Most of them chose Angular too, some of
them chose Vue, some of them chose React.
I can tell you without a doubt
that enterprise ready.
First of all, I think it really
comes down to the infrastructure,
where you deploy this, can you deploy it
to somewhere that's enterprise ready?
Yes, Vercel is enterprise ready,
Netlify is enterprise ready.
So that answers that problem.
Two, it's a front end app that leverages
technologies that have already been proven
to be enterprise ready,
like serverless functions.
So in that case, absolutely.
Then the third thing that might
be more important is when
it comes to organizing things and
patterns,
I would say it's probably more enterprise
ready than something like vanilla React,
where you kind of just do whatever
the hell you want, however you want.
And whoever is a team leader is gonna
come up with how things are done.
At least in the Next.js it's closer
to what you might get with Angular,
maybe more opinionated than Angular.
Whereas there's a bunch of
adventures you have to follow so
you don't have to teach or enforce those.
You either do them or it doesn't work,
and there's no in-between.
So I would say it is enterprise ready for
sure,
seeing how it's mostly just code that
executes on enterprise infrastructure.
And itself is just a framework
that runs in a browser
that's built on top of the most
popular framework ever created.
So yeah,
I would say it's pretty enterprise ready.
You shouldn't have any problems.
Go do it.
Awesome.
Yeah, so thanks for taking the course,
had super fun teaching it.
It's definitely one of
my favorite frameworks.
Pretty much all I use now for
almost everything.
Sometimes I just go pure vanilla,
but most of the time it's Next.js.
So hopefully everyone learns
something from it and
you can use this as a reference
to go back and check things out.
But like I said,
I highly recommend going for it and
just building more things to kinda
solidify what you just learned here.
Otherwise, it'll just be familiar, but
it won't be something that
you're really good at.
So whatever pace you are at that
bootcamp that you might have went to,
keep that pace, go build some new stuff.
And hopefully this becomes
second nature to you.
So thank you for coming.
>> [APPLAUSE]